.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH ISOQUERY 1 "February 15, 2008"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)

.\"
.\" Create a verbatim environment
.de VS
.RS
.sp
.nf
..
.de VE
.fi
.sp
.RE
..

.SH NAME
isoquery \- Search and display various ISO codes (country, language, ...)

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B isoquery
.RI [ options "] [" file "] [" "ISO codes" ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B isoquery
command.
It can be used to generate a tabular output of the ISO standard
codes provided by the package iso-codes.
It parses the XML files and shows all included ISO codes or just
matching entries, if specified on the command line.
Moreover, it's possible to get all available translations for
the ISO standard.

.SH OPTIONS
This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`\-').
.B isoquery
supports the following options:
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-iso=NUMBER
The ISO standard to use.
Possible values: 639, 3166, 4217, 15924 (default: 3166)
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-name
Name for the supplied codes (default)
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-official_name
Official name for the supplied codes.
This may be the same as \-\-name.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-common_name
Common name for the supplied codes.
This may be the same as \-\-name.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-locale=LOCALE
Use this locale for output.
.TP
.B \-x, \-\-xmlfile=FILE
Use another XML file with ISO data.
(default: /usr/share/xml/iso-codes/iso_3166.xml)
.TP
.B \-0, \-\-null
Separate entries with a NULL character instead of newline.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show program version and copyright.

.SH EXAMPLES
If called without any command line options,
.B isoquery
will put out a table of all ISO 3166 codes.
The first three columns contain the alpha\-2 code, the alpha\-3 code,
and the numerical code assigned to the country listed in the
fourth column.
.VS
$ isoquery
AF      AFG     004     Afghanistan
[...]
ZW      ZWE     716     Zimbabwe
.VE
If you need only some countries, you can specify any of the codes in
the first three columns to cut down the output.
.VS
$ isoquery so nor 484
SO      SOM     706     Somalia
NO      NOR     578     Norway
MX      MEX     484     Mexico
.VE
Should you need the translations of the countries' names, just specify
in which locale you'd like to see the output.
Please note that the original English name will be shown if there is no
translation available for the specified locale.
.VS
$ isoquery \-\-locale=nl fr de es
FR      FRA     250     Frankrijk
DE      DEU     276     Duitsland
ES      ESP     724     Spanje
.VE
All of the above works for different ISO standards as well, so you can
switch to language names by using the \-\-iso command line option.
For ISO 639, the first three columns are the ISO 639 2B code, the
ISO 639 2T code and the ISO 639\-1 code.
The third column may be empty.
.VS
$ isoquery \-\-iso=639
aar     aar     aa      Afar
abk     abk     ab      Abkhazian
ace     ace             Achinese
[...]
zun     zun             Zuni
zxx     zxx             No linguistic content
zza     zza             Zaza; Dimili; Dimli; Kirdki
.VE
You can trim down the results by specifying only some codes. Moreover,
the option to get translated names is also available.
.VS
$ isoquery \-\-iso=639 \-\-locale=pt vi bo kl
vie     vie     vi      Vietnamita
tib     bod     bo      tibetano
kal     kal     kl      Kalaallisut; Greenlandic
.VE
You can get selected translations of currency names from the ISO 4217
standard by using the following command.
The first two columns are the alpha\-3 code and the numerical code
assigned to the currency.
.VS
$ isoquery \-\-iso=4217 \-\-locale=da cad 392
CAD     124     Canadisk dollar
JPY     392     Japansk yen
.VE
If you need to get script names, you can use the ISO 15924 table.
The first two columns are the alpha\-4 code and the numerical code
assigned to the script.
.VS
$ isoquery \-\-iso=15924 jpan latn 280
Jpan    413     Japanese (alias for Han + Hiragana + Katakana)
Latn    215     Latin
Visp    280     Visible Speech
.VE

.SH FILES
By default, the XML files provided by the iso-codes package
will be used.
.br
.I /usr/share/xml/iso-codes/iso_639.xml
.br
.I /usr/share/xml/iso-codes/iso_3166.xml
.br
.I /usr/share/xml/iso-codes/iso_4217.xml

.SH LICENSE
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Tobias Toedter <toddy@debian.org>
.PP
Isoquery is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.PP
Isoquery is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.
If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.SH AUTHOR
Tobias Toedter <toddy@debian.org>
